# NARC
Neo-sole Accelerometer based Remote Communications fall detection shoe is a shoe that discovers when you fall and alerts authorities

The NARC is named for its habit of telling the cops when you're "tripping" or otherwise falling. Its main purpose is to assist elderly people by providing them security. If the wearer falls over, this shoe can tell authorities/family that the wearer has fallen. The process for doing so is pretty simple. We start by reading the force on the heel. Through numerous tests, we found that the force on the heel of the shoe should not drop below a certain value when the wearer is upright. Thus, if it does, the wearer is not upright. We then check this with an accelerometer. We use the accelerometer to check first the angle of the foot. If it's out of a range of values we also tested and found to be upright, the person may have fallen. We next check for movement in the angle of the foot. If we find movement, we know that the person is either walking or moving their foot otherwise, and has thus not fallen (we note in our presentation that if the user has fallen they should stay stationary for the roughly ten seconds it takes for the message to send). After testing for movement, we send out a preliminary buzz. This original sound from a piezo buzzer is meant to alert the wearer that we believe they may have fallen, and they only have a few seconds to move their foot to prevent the message from being sent. If they don't change the angle of their foot, we send out the message through a Wifi Connection. 
We accomplish this next part through a wifi shield that's initialized to a hot-spot or local network when the shoe is turned on. The WiFi shield sends either a 1 or a 0 to thingspeak (a website). The 1 means that the person has fallen and the 0 means that they have not. When we send a 1, twilio (another website) will read thingspeak and see that the person has fallen. From there, twilio sends a text to a number saved on their website informing that person that a family member has fallen while wearing the Narc, and from there, further action can be taken
